Welcome back.
Using our newfound knowledge of loops we're going to make our Facebook app a little bit better.
I mean because Facebook has more than one user rate.
It's not just one user it's got millions of them.
So how can we check somebody's password by going through not just one user but multiple ones well.
Sounds like a perfect solution for loops.
So let's give it a go.
I'm going to add a few more users in here.
Mean just copy this and we'll have Sally with the password.
One two three.
And we'll also have Ingrid with password 7 7 7.
So let's refresh it.
I'm going to make this on our new line just so you can see it.
I'm going to refresh and Let's type in Ingrid 7 7 sorry wrong user name and password.
And that makes sense right.
Because when we created our sign in function well it's only checking the first item in the database.
But we want to check through all of them we want to check through the first item in the array.
The second and the third looks like we need to add a loop in here so how can we do that.
We should look at a for loop.
I'm going to say in here.
Well actually I'm going to comment this out first and we'll say that when we sign in we want to do for
variable i equals zero.
We remember this syntax from last video we'll say pi is less than the database dot length.
So database length that's three and we'll increment by every time open in close brackets and then here
we want to say if database pie.
So instead of zero now we can say I because high is going to go 0 1 to so database I he calls and we
should had user name here as well.
So if the user name equals the user name that we receive which is the input user name and then start
a new line here database Hi dot password equals the password that we receive from the user Well if that's
the case what should we do.
Well if that's correct we'll do console log user fee otherwise we'll do alert sorry wrong username and
password
so not going to save.
Let's try this out username Ingrid password 7 7 7 sorry wrong user name and password sorry wrong username
and password but then I get the news feed what just happened.
Well what we just did was we did a for loop but we ran this three times.
So the first time I got sorry wrong the user name the second time I got sorry wrong user name because
it's checking Andre and Sally and then it's checking Ingrid which finally works and gives me back the
news feed so our logic here isn't right.
What can we do to solve this.
Well I have an idea.
Let's create another function.
I'm going to call this function is user valid and this function is going to receive user name
and password and here we can copy this and move it over here.
But we don't really want to do what happened here where we constantly log instead we would want to say
return true so if user is valid.
Return true if the user is not valid then we should return false.
Right.
But how can we do that.
Well if I do return false here let's look at the logic.
I am looping through everything.
If at any point the user name and the password match will what we have in the database return true.
And we remember that a function stops and exits when it sees returns.
So it's going to return true.
But if it does the looping three times and this if condition never passes it's going to go to the next
line which is return false.
So now is user valid.
Well let's test this out.
I'm going to say console dog log is user valid and we'll give it username and password.
You can see that the user name and password is coming from here.
So let's see.
I'm going to save and refresh
Ingrid 7 7 7 true.
That's right.
Let's test something where it's not right.
I'm going to say it.
And garbled verbal false.
OK.
It looks like our is user valid function is working.
So now watch this we can remove the log and on comment our original function and instead of doing all
this check we can now say if is user valid user name and password which is again this username and password
that we receive over here from the prompt if this is true then run the news feed if it's false while
else you say sorry wrong user name and password let's save and refresh OK.
Let's go.
Ingrid password 777 we get our news feed and if we enter a wrong information
we get sorry wrong username and password.
How cool is that.
We now just created two functions and it reads pretty nicely right.
And it says Sign in here's a user name.
Here's the password.
We go to the sign and function it says hey if is user valid.
Yes users valid then blog news feed.
Otherwise alert.
Sorry wrong username and password.
And that is a really important concept of naming things and ordering code so you can kind of read it
like English and it makes sense.
And there you have it.
We have our Facebook app.
You can see here the power of JavaScript.
Again we've created these functionalities that can be applied on grander scale on real web apps.
I'll see in the next one but my.